# Vol-of-vol and skew
 
‘x-delta skew’, at least in an equity derivatives context, refers to: implied vol x-delta put – implied vol x-delta call. In rates, quotation is instead done in terms of fixed strikes: e.g., ‘payer-receiver skew’ is taken to mean: implied vol of ATM+50bp payer swaption  - implied vol of ATM-50bp receiver swaption.
 
Assume the equity derivatives case for now, and consider a delta-hedged reverse risk-reversal (buy a put; sell a call). This position has negative delta, and a gamma that depends on the relative weight of the two legs (as the put leg has positive gamma, whereas the call leg negative gamma). For the sake of long-term PnL, you want delta-hedging to require buying sell-offs, and selling rallies. That is: you would like declines in spot to see your delta become more negative – and increases to see your delta become less negative.
 
First imagine that spot falls. The delta of the put leg becomes more negative (- delta), whereas that of the call leg becomes less negative (+ delta), leaving the effect on overall delta ambiguous. The goal is for the overall delta to decrease, so that delta-hedging requires buying the sell-off in spot. One way for this to happen is for ATM implied volatility to increase markedly in the sell-off. This way the delta of the put leg decreases even more (as absolute delta increases with implied volatility – given that, intuitively, higher volatility induces a higher probability of the option finishing ITM), whereas the delta of the call leg increases less (so in absolute value terms both deltas end up larger than they would have in the event that implied volatility did not reset sharply higher). So the  (-) delta effect is now likely to outweigh the (+) delta effect, and overall delta is likely to decrease. Thus the sell-off is bought.
 
Next imagine that spot increases. The delta of the put leg becomes less negative (+ delta), whereas the delta of the call leg more negative (- delta). Again, the effect on overall delta is ambiguous. However if implied volatility resets sharply lower upon the rally in spot, then the delta of the put leg increases more, and the delta of the call leg decreases less (so that in absolute value terms both deltas end up smaller than they would have in the event that implied volatility did not reset sharply lower). So the (+) delta effect is now likely to outweigh the (-) delta effect, and overall delta is likely to increase. Thus the rally would be sold.
 
Moral of the story: for the reverse risk-reversal position to enjoy consistently positive gamma (such that the lows may be bought and the highs sold) you want implied vol to increase sharply upon a fall in spot – and fall sharply upon a rally in spot. In other words, you want high vol-of-(implied) vol. In this way, a reverse risk-reversal (long skew) position is long vol-of-vol, but short the spot-vol beta (i.e., you want vol to be strongly inversely related to spot).

